---
title: (R16) How to calculate partition functions using convex programming hierarchies - provable bounds for variational methods
published: 2016-12-28
modified: 2016-12-28
tags: dynamical systems, quasi-convexity
type: paper
showTOC: True
---

# Introduction

Two approaches for calculating partition functions

1. Markov chains to sample
    * (Jerrum04, JerrumSinclair1993) Certain Markov chains mix rapidly; used to approximate permanent with nonnegative entries and partition function for ferromagnetic Ising.
2. Variational methods: partition function is the solution of a (intractable) optimization problem over the polytope of valid distributions.
    * Popular, faster, easier to parallelize
	* Little theoretical understanding
	* Another algorithm: Belief propagation (solving non-convex relaxation)
	    * Regime of correlation decay and locally tree-like graphs.
		
Use Sherali-Adams and Lasserre convex programming hierarchies to get the first provable, convex variational methods. They work *because* local correlations propagate to global correlations, the opposite of correlation decay.

(See [hierarchies](../optimization/hierarchies.html).)

# Definitions and setting

Ising model $p(x)\propto \exp\pa{\sum_{i,j} J_{i,j}x_ix_j}$, $x\in \{-1,1\}^n$ is $\De$-dense if letting $J_T=\sum_{i,j}|J_{i,j}|$,
$$
\forall i,j\in [n], \De |J_{i,j}|\le \fc{J_T}{n^2},
$$
(Ex. if the $J_{i,j}$ is 1 for an edge and 0 for a non-edge, and the graph has density $cn^2$, then $\De = \rc{c}$.)

$p$ is **regular** if $\sum_j |J_{i,j}|=J'$. The adjacency matrix is $A_{i,j} = \fc{|J_{i,j}|}{J'}$. Let $\rank_\tau(A)$ be the number of eigenvalues with $\ad\ge\tau$.

Why dense Ising models? 

* There are PTAS for CSPs for dense constraint graphs.
* Mean-field ferromagnetic Ising model: each spin interacts with every other spin.

# Result

* Algorithm based on SA hierarchy achieving additive approximation of $\ep J_T$ to $\ln Z$ in time $n^{O\prc{\De \ep^2}}$.
* Algorithm based on Lasserre hierarchy achieving additive approximation of $\ep n J'$ to $\ln Z$ in time $n^{\rank_{\Om(\ep^2)}(A)/\Om(\ep^2)}$.

# Method

## Dense graphs, SA

* (Variational characterization of $\ln Z$) $\ln Z = \max_{\mu\in M} \sum_{i\sim j} J_{i,j} \E_\mu [x_ix_j] + H(\mu)$ where $M$ is the polytope of distributions over $\{-1,1\}^n$. (Maximum achieved at $\mu=p$.)
    * *Proof*. The KL divergence to $p$ is $\ge 0$.
* Relax to $M'\supeq M$.
* Need to design surrogates for $H(\mu)$. 
    * Popular choice: Bethe entropy. (But it is not an upper bound in general.)
	* Instead, design $\wt H(\mu) \ge H(\mu)$ whenever $\mu\in M$, then round to distributions.
*   Define the **augmented mean-field pseudo-entropy functional**
	$$
	H_{aMF,k}(\mu) = \min_{|S|\le k}H(\mu_S) + \sum_{i\nin S} H(\mu_i |\mu_S).
	$$
	* By the chain rule and "conditioning reduces entropy", $H(\mu)\le H_{aMF,k}(\mu)$.
	* $H(\mu_i|\mu_S)$ is concave, so $H_{aMF,k}(\mu)$ is concave. (Proof omitted.)
*   The relaxation is
	$$
	\max_{\mu\in SA(O(1/(\De \ep^2)))} \bc{
	\sum_{i,j} J_{i,j} \E_\mu[x_ix_j] + H_{aMF,k}(\mu)
	}
	$$
*   Correlation rounding: pick a seed set, condition on it, and round other variables independently. (YoshidaZhou2014) There is a set of size $k=O\prc{\De \ep^2}$ such that 
	$$
	\ab{\sum_{i,j} J_{i,j} \E_\mu[x_ix_j|x_S] - \sum_{i,j} J_{i,j} \E_\mu [x_i|x_S] \E_\mu[x_j|x_S]}\le \fc{100}{\De k}J_T.
	$$
*   Letting $\wt\mu(x) = \mu(x_S) \prod_{i\nin S} \mu(x_i|x_S)$, $\E_{\wt\mu} [x_ix_j|x_S] = \E_\mu[x_i|x_S]\mu[x_j|x_S]$.Combine YZ14 with $H\le H_{aMF,k}$.

## Low threshold rank, Lasserre

* The correlation rounding bound changes to: $\exists |S|\le \rank_{\Om(\ep^2)}(A)$, $...\le \ep J_T$.
<!-- $$\max_{\mu\in LAS(k)} \ba{\sum_{i,j} \E_\mu [x_ix_j] + H_{aMF,k}(\mu)}.$$-->

# Interpretation

* High temperature $|H| = O\prc{d}$
    * Dobrushin's uniqueness criterion: correlation decay
	* MC methods work and give $(1+\ep)$ factor approximation, stronger.
* Transition threshold $|J|=\Te\prc{d}$.
    * MC provide no nontrivial guarantee.
	* We get $\ep n$ additive factor approximation.
* Low temperature $|J|=\om\prc{d}$. :(
