---
title: Thoughts on LDC's
published: 2016-03-14
modified: 2016-03-14
tags: LDC
type: notes
showTOC: True
---

#3-14-16

* Why the lower bound for 3-query LCC's doesn't extend to LDC's.
* We aren't using anything about the form of $\phi$ other than small dual Gowers uniformity...
* An interpretation of the AP differences $y$: it fails to be an LDC if you can't arbitrarily specify the (relative) density of AP's in those directions.
* A MVC is linear on $\F_p$, not $\Z/m$. The coefficients and evaluations are in $\F_p$ even though the vectors aren't. (Could we do better with codes on $\Z/m$?) A linear code on $\F_p$ can be converted to a code on $\F_2$ but it loses linearity.
    * However, a MVC is NOT captured by the "query at an AP formalism." Although the codeword index space is $\F_p^N$, we're not using that group structure for querying. Rather, we're using the group structure of $\F_p^{\times N}$. So it could still be possible to prove a lower bound querying AP's.
	* That is false, it IS captured. The group can be different! There is a group, and there is a field. Two different things!
* Q4.14 in "APs and LDCs": When $N$ grows large, there doesn't even exist a degree 1 polynomial for which this holds. This doesn't seem promising; the only interesting case is for $n$ constant or small.
* Variations on the poly method:
    * How to use it for small finite fields? (In Kakeya, $p\to \iy$.)
	* How about considering polynomials with multiple outputs, ex. $\F_p^n\to \F_p^{n-2}$ to capture vanishing on a plane?
* To study: Guth's course. Does the idea for the plane/regulus theorem help in thinking about $\de$-SG configurations and LDC's?
